---
layout: post
title:  "Uploading Container Images to Docker Hub"
date:   2024-04-23 09:15:23 +0530
categories: jekyll update
---
In today's tech world, containerization has become a key component of modern software development and deployment. Docker, one of the leading containerization platforms, provides a convenient way to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight containers. Docker Hub, on the other hand, is a cloud-based registry service that allows users to store and distribute Docker images.


**Prerequisites**

Before getting started, ensure you have the following:

-Docker installed on your local machine
-A Docker Hub account

**Step 1: Build Your Docker Image**

First, you'll need to build the Docker image you want to upload. This typically involves creating a **Dockerfile** that specifies the configuration for your image and then using the **docker build** command to build it.

Here's an example **Dockerfile** for a simple Node.js application:

{% highlight Dockerfile %}
# Use the official Node.js image as a base
FROM node:14

# Set the working directory inside the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy package.json and package-lock.json to the working directory
COPY package*.json ./

# Install dependencies
RUN npm install

# Copy the rest of the application code to the working directory
COPY . .

# Expose port 3000
EXPOSE 3000

# Command to run the application
CMD ["npm", "start"]
{% endhighlight %}

Navigate to the directory containing your Dockerfile and run the following command to build the Docker image:

{% highlight Dockerfile %}
docker build -t kirtan2604/ia2-image:tag .
{% endhighlight %}

**Step 2: Log in to Docker Hub**

Before you can push your image to Docker Hub, you need to log in to your Docker Hub account from the command line. Run the following command and enter your Docker Hub credentials when prompted:

{% highlight Dockerfile %}
docker login
{% endhighlight %}

**Step 3: Tag Your Image**

Next, you'll need to tag your Docker image with the appropriate repository name and version. Use the following command to tag your image:

{% highlight Dockerfile %}
docker tag kirtan2604/ia2-image:tag kirtan2604/ia2-image:new-tag
{% endhighlight %}

**Step 4: Push Your Image to Docker Hub**

Finally, you're ready to push your Docker image to Docker Hub. Use the following command to push the image:

{% highlight Dockerfile %}
docker push kirtan2604/ia2-image:new-tag
{% endhighlight %}

This command will upload the tagged image to your Docker Hub repository. Once the upload is complete, your image will be available for use by others.

